 # Document filtering
 
 Document filtering basically deals with filtering systems which are developed as to cater user specific interests and change accordingly using keywords. 
 The one of the major difference is between search engines and document filtering lies: relevance feedback.
 
 The document filtering algorithms cater to user specific interests, but one thing these algorithms cannot cater to is changing user interests, which 
 cannot be handled unless the user's preferences are really stable. Hence algorithms based on keywords have limitations and receive criticism for the same.
 With respect to selecting documents, based on document filtering each profile searches and scores the documents available. The correctness is measured 
 according to the user requirement. The order and number of documents are the only parameters which can be manipulated.
 
 Whereas in a search engine the keywords are used to search in pages and the links it contains are used to rank the page. The ranking numbers decide the 
 order of appearance in search engines and not the key words. Also there's not much user interest changes in search engines, except that the crawling would 
 be necessary for pages which change often and not for static pages. So ranking is not the way document filtering algorithms work, but they work on keywords.
 Also ranking algorithms rank based on page links. If the ranking algorithms can be modified to rank user interests in some way, they can be used to adapt to
 user preferences as well in document filtering.
 
 With comparison to efficiency, the search engines are more efficient because they crawl the web periodically to find relevant pages retrieve pages accordingly
 in a manner which shows the closest pages before. With document filtering the algorithms can be sending documents to users in which they don't have preferences
 or have preferences which don't exist anymore, basically change in preferences is what causes inefficiency in document filtering. Also the number
 of documents to check in document filtering are limited w.r.t. search engines and this also doesn't given freedom for ranking algorithms
 
 Citations: 
 http://agents.media.mit.edu/publications/newt-thesis/main.html
 